Source URL: https://careers.lilly.com/us/en/job/R-108770/Associate-Scientist-CAR-Discover-Lilly-Gene-Therapy

Associate Scientist, CAR Discover- Lilly Gene Therapy
Location Boston, Massachusetts, United States of America Category Research & Development Job Type Full Time Job Id R-108770
 

At Lilly, the work is demanding because patients are waiting. We unite caring with discovery to help make life better for people around the world, knowing that every decision, every detail, and every day matters. Headquartered in Indianapolis, Indiana, our over 50,000 employees around the globe take on complex challenges to discover and deliver life-changing medicines, strengthen how health is understood and managed, and support the communities we serve. This is hard, urgent, selfless work—but it’s work worth doing. If you’re driven by purpose and ready to bring your best to work that truly matters for patients, we invite you to join us. 


The Lilly Gene Therapy Team is seeking a highly motivated and experienced scientist to join our CAR Discover team. This role will be instrumental in the design, development, and optimization of novel Chimeric Antigen Receptor (CAR) T-cell therapies, contributing to groundbreaking advancements in oncology.

Job Responsibilities:

Lead the design and execution of experiments for the discovery and characterization of novel CAR constructs.
Develop and implement innovative strategies for CAR optimization, including antigen-binding domains, costimulatory signaling, and intracellular signaling domains.
Apply molecular biology techniques (e.g., cloning, primer design, sequencing) for CAR construct generation and modification.
* Perform in vitro functional assays (e.g., cytotoxicity, cytokine production, proliferation, activation) using primary human T cells and various tumor cell lines.
Design and implement ex vivo studies to evaluate CAR T-cell efficacy and safety using patient-derived samples.
Analyze and interpret complex experimental data, present findings to internal and external partners, and contribute to scientific publications and patent applications.
Collaborate effectively with multidisciplinary teams, including immunology, oncology, process development, and manufacturing.
Mentor junior scientists and contribute to a culture of scientific excellence and innovation.
Stay abreast of innovative scientific literature and technological advancements in the CAR T-cell therapy field.
Maintain meticulous laboratory records and adhere to all relevant safety and regulatory guidelines.

Job Qualifications:

BS or MS in Immunology, Molecular Biology, Cell Biology, Oncology, or a related field with at least 3-5+ years of relevant industry experience
Qualified applicants must be authorized to work in the United States on a full-time basis. Lilly will not provide support for or sponsor work authorization or visas for this role, including but not limited to F-1 CPT, F-1 OPT, F-1 STEM OPT, J-1, H-1B, TN, O-1, E-3, H-1B1, or L-1.
Additional Skills/Preferences:

Extensive hands-on experience with CAR T-cell design, engineering, and functional characterization is essential.
Proficiency in a wide range of molecular biology techniques, including gene cloning, PCR, Western blotting, and CRISPR/Cas9 gene editing.
Demonstrated expertise in cell culture techniques, particularly with primary human T cells and mammalian cell lines.
Strong experience with flow cytometry for immunophenotyping and functional analysis.
 
Lilly is dedicated to helping individuals with disabilities to actively engage in the workforce, ensuring equal opportunities when vying for positions. If you require accommodation to submit a resume for a position at Lilly, please complete the accommodation request form (https://careers.lilly.com/us/en/workplace-accommodation) for further assistance. Please note this is for individuals to request an accommodation as part of the application process and any other correspondence will not receive a response.


Lilly is proud to be an EEO Employer and does not discriminate on the basis of age, race, color, religion, gender identity, sex, gender expression, sexual orientation, genetic information, ancestry, national origin, protected veteran status, disability, or any other legally protected status.


Our employee resource groups (ERGs) offer strong support networks for their members and are open to all employees. Our current groups include: Africa, Middle East, Central Asia (AMECA), Black Employees at Lilly (BE@Lilly), Chinese Culture Network (CCN), EnAble, Evolve, Lilly Indian Network (LIN), Organization of Latinx at Lilly (OLA), Pride (LGBTQ+ Allies), Veterans Leadership Network (VLN) and Women’s Initiative for Leading at Lilly (WILL).


Actual compensation will depend on a candidate’s education, experience, skills, and geographic location.  The anticipated wage for this position is

$71,250 - $187,000
Full-time equivalent employees also will be eligible for a company bonus (depending, in part, on company and individual performance). In addition, Lilly offers a comprehensive benefit program to eligible employees, including eligibility to participate in a company-sponsored 401(k); pension; vacation benefits; eligibility for medical, dental, vision and prescription drug benefits; flexible benefits (e.g., healthcare and/or dependent day care flexible spending accounts); life insurance and death benefits; certain time off and leave of absence benefits; and well-being benefits (e.g., employee assistance program, fitness benefits, and employee clubs and activities).Lilly reserves the right to amend, modify, or terminate its compensation and benefit programs in its sole discretion and Lilly’s compensation practices and guidelines will apply regarding the details of any promotion or transfer of Lilly employees.

#WeAreLilly